README.md, before:


**Biset** sequencing modules

# Regex & Regex-Condensed

**Regex** is a text based pattern sequencer.
It can generate both clock (rythm) and pitch sequences.

**Regex** is made of 8 (12 for the condensed version) expressions, and 2 inputs:
- An expression is made of a **screen**, a **mode switch**, **3 inputs** and **2 outputs**:
	- Screen: Expression editor
	- Mode switch: Expression mode switch (**clock** or **pitch**)
	- Input reset: Reset the running expression
	- Input 1 (clock): 1st input of the expression. Replace master clock if connected.
	- Input 2: 2nd input of the expression. Used as an additional clock on **clock** mode and as pitch offset on **pitch** mode.
- Input reset: Reset all running expressions
- Input clock master: Clock all expressions

## Expression

An expression is a string defining a pattern generating **clock** (rythm) or **pitch** (or CV).

It is based on sequences that are made of:

- A **type** (foreward, backward, pingpong, random, etc.) OPTIONAL (foreward by default)
- A **series of values** (number, pitch, recursive sequence)
- A **modulator**	OPTIONAL

Here are a few valid expression

- `c,d,e`
- `0,1,2,3`
- `?0,1,2,3`
- `>(0,1,2,?(3,4,5))`
- `^(1,2,3)%16`
- `^(1,2,3,4)x4`

To run an expression, you should press **Enter** while on the corresponding
led display. You can also press **Ctrl + Enter** to run all expressions.
An expression can be stopped by pression **Escape**.

### Sequence types

By default, a sequence is set with the **foreward** type.

Here is a list of available types:

- `>` Foreward		Read the sequence foreward
- `<` Backward		Read the sequence backward
- `^` Ping-pong		Read the sequence foreward and backward
- `@` Shuffle		Read the sequence shuffled
- `?` Random		Pick an item of the sequence
- `!` X-Random		Pick an item of the sequence avoiding the last picked
- `$` Walk			Random walk in the sequence

### Sequence values

Expressions values can be numbers of pitch (with optionnal octave).
You can also use other sequences as values, allowing you to build complex
patterns.

Here a a few valid values:

- `C`
- `c`
- `c#`
- `cb`
- `c5`
- `3`
- `16`

### Sequence modulators

Modulator define the sequence behavior through time.
When no modulator is used, the sequence is read once.

The `xN` modulator simply asks for the sequence to be read N times.

The `%N` modulator varies on the **expression mode**.
On **clock mode**, it loops the sequence until N clock triggers have been
reached on the **input**, allowing you to easily build "regular" rythms.
On **pitch mode**, it loops the sequence until N values have been **output**.

## Clock mode

The **clock mode** generates rythm. It uses the **master clock input**
or the **1st input** as main clock and can use the **2nd input** as additional
clock (resulting in a more complex rythm).

The values acts like clock dividers.

Exemple:

- `>1,2`		xx.|
- `>1,2,3`		xx.x..|xx.x..|
- `>1,2,3%16`	xx.x..|xx.x..|xx.x|

## Pitch mode

The **pitch mode** generates pitch on each trigger received via the
**master clock input** or the **1st input**.

The **2nd input** allows you to combine pitch sequences. It acts as an
**offset** to the output pitch.
You can have a pitch expression outputing random pitch on 1 octave, connect that
expression to a second expression
(connect 1st expression output to 2nd expression 2nd input) to modulate the
octave using values like `0`, `12`, `24` or even `c4`, `c5`, `c3`, etc.





# Tracker suite

Work in progress.

The **Tracker Suite** aims to provide a set of connected modules made for
*traditional* composition and live performance.
It is pattern based with a timeline and a pattern matrix.
Patterns editor is based on a tracker.

It will be made of:

- **Tracker** (main composition module)
- **T-Synth** (poly output cv / trigger / ... from tracker)
- **T-Drum** (output splitted trigger / cv ... from tracker)
- **T-Clock** (divided / multiplied clock from tracker)
- **T-Phase** (divided / multiplied clock phase from tracker with wave shaping for LFO)
- **T-State** (Run / reset / end of song / end of pattern / ... from tracker)
- **T-Temp** (quantize signal to Tracker settings)

Commit message:

[~]Regex: fixed % modulator on clock & pitch modes

README.md, after:


**Biset** sequencing modules

# Regex & Regex-Condensed

**Regex** is a text based pattern sequencer.
It can generate both clock (rythm) and pitch sequences.

It has been thought for performance as a live coding device. You can easily
build sequences, rythm and/or pitch/cv and connect them.

**Regex** is made of 8 (12 for the condensed version) expressions, and 2 inputs:
- An expression is made of a **screen**, a **mode switch**, **3 inputs** and **2 outputs**:
	- Screen: Expression editor
	- Mode switch: Expression mode switch (**clock** or **pitch**)
	- Input reset: Reset the running expression
	- Input 1 (clock): 1st input of the expression. Replace master clock if connected.
	- Input 2: 2nd input of the expression. Used as an additional clock on **clock** mode and as pitch offset on **pitch** mode.
- Input reset: Reset all running expressions
- Input clock master: Clock all expressions

## Expression

An expression is a string defining a pattern generating **clock** (rythm) or **pitch** (or CV).

It is based on sequences that are made of:

- A **type** (foreward, backward, pingpong, random, etc.) OPTIONAL (foreward by default)
- A **series of values** (number, pitch, recursive sequence)
- A **modulator**	OPTIONAL

Here are a few valid expression

- `c,d,e`
- `0,1,2,3`
- `?0,1,2,3`
- `>(0,1,2,?(3,4,5))`
- `^(1,2,3)%16`
- `^(1,2,3,4)x4`

To run an expression, you should press **Enter** while on the corresponding
led display. You can also press **Ctrl + Enter** to run all expressions.
An expression can be stopped by pression **Escape**.
You can use **Ctrl + Arrow** to jump to other expressions.

### Sequence types

By default, a sequence is set with the **foreward** type.

Here is a list of available types:

- `>` Foreward		Read the sequence foreward
- `<` Backward		Read the sequence backward
- `^` Ping-pong		Read the sequence foreward and backward
- `@` Shuffle		Read the sequence shuffled
- `?` Random		Pick an item of the sequence
- `!` X-Random		Pick an item of the sequence avoiding the last picked
- `$` Walk			Random walk in the sequence

### Sequence values

Expressions values can be numbers of pitch (with optionnal octave).
You can also use other sequences as values, allowing you to build complex
patterns.

Here a a few valid values:

- `C`
- `c`
- `c#`
- `cb`
- `c5`
- `3`
- `16`

### Sequence modulators

Modulator define the sequence behavior through time.
When no modulator is used, the sequence is read once.

The `xN` modulator simply asks for the sequence to be read N times.

The `%N` modulator varies on the **expression mode**.
On **clock mode**, it loops the sequence until N clock triggers have been
reached on the **input**, allowing you to easily build "regular" rythms.
On **pitch mode**, it loops the sequence until N values have been **output**.

## Clock mode

The **clock mode** generates rythm. It uses the **master clock input**
or the **1st input** as main clock and can use the **2nd input** as additional
clock (resulting in a more complex rythm).

The sequence values acts like clock dividers.

Exemples:

- `>1,2`		xx.|
- `<1,2`		x.x|
- `^1,2`		xx.x.x|
- `>1,2,3`		xx.x..|
- `>1,2,3%8`	xx.x..|xx|
- `>1,2,3%16`	xx.x..|xx.x..|xx.x|

## Pitch mode

The **pitch mode** generates pitch on each trigger received via the
**master clock input** or the **1st input**.

The **2nd input** allows you to combine pitch sequences. It acts as an
**offset** to the output pitch.
You can have a pitch expression outputing random pitch on 1 octave, connect that
expression to a second expression
(connect 1st expression output to 2nd expression 2nd input) to modulate the
octave using values like `0`, `12`, `24` or even `c4`, `c5`, `c3`, etc.





# Tracker suite

Work in progress.

The **Tracker Suite** aims to provide a set of connected modules made for
*traditional* composition and live performance.
It is pattern based with a timeline and a pattern matrix.
Patterns editor is based on a tracker.

It will be made of:

- **Tracker** (main composition module)
- **T-Synth** (poly output cv / trigger / ... from tracker)
- **T-Drum** (output splitted trigger / cv ... from tracker)
- **T-Clock** (divided / multiplied clock from tracker)
- **T-Phase** (divided / multiplied clock phase from tracker with wave shaping for LFO)
- **T-State** (Run / reset / end of song / end of pattern / ... from tracker)
- **T-Temp** (quantize signal to Tracker settings)
